+++
title = "AI Code Detection"
date = 2024-06-04 20:24:09+00:00
summary = "A tool detecting AI-generated code raises concerns about biased judgments and potential implications for creativity and quality in coding and beyond. I worry about machines dictating what constitutes \"good\" work, prioritizing efficiency over independence and creativity."
+++
Today I've tried a tool claiming to detect whether code might be AI-generated. It turns out the tool is suggesting that my work could possibly be the result of artificial intelligence, when its quality is high and it follows best practices. So that means in turn that the machine is already biased towards thinking it's better than humans. This is frightening to be honest.

It's not just this one-off situation, though. The more I think about it, the more I realize how far-reaching the implications are. If machines start judging our work based on their own biases and standards, where do we draw the line? Should we strive for machine-like efficiency in our coding, or should we prioritize creativity and quality?

The tool's claims of detecting AI-generated code might seem harmless at first, but what if it's just the tip of the iceberg? What if AI-powered tools start evaluating our work in all sorts of areas, from writing to art to music? Where do we go from there?

It's a slippery slope, and one that I'm not sure I'm ready for. As a developer, I value my independence and creativity, and the thought of machines dictating what constitutes "good" code or art is unsettling. And even more so, it should never come at the expense of quality - we should prioritize creating high-quality work, regardless of whether it's generated by human or machine.
